README.md, before:

# BirdSharp
**BirdSharp is a high-performance, mid-level systems language that is the perfect balance between low-level control and a high-level developer experience.**


## BirdSharp Examples
### 1. Hello World (using the Standard Library)
This simple Hello World program can already show BirdSharp's versaltility. This code uses the Standard Library, a simple library that converts high-level instructions into syscalls.

```c
#!include "std.bsh"

int main(long argc, char **argv) {
    print("Hello, BirdSharp!\n")
    exit(0)
    return 0
}
```

### 2. Fibonacci Function
In particular, a Fibonnaci function can say whether a programming language is incompetent or powerful. Again, BirdSharp excels with its easy syntax

```c
int fibonacci(int n) {
    if (n < 2) {
        return n
    }
    
    int a = 0;
    int b = 1;
    int i = 2;
    int temp = 0;
    
    while (i <= n) {
        temp = a + b;
        a = b;
        b = temp;
        i = i + 1;
    }
    return b;
}
```
* Note that there are no for loops; they aren't implemented yet *

### 3. Arrays
BirdSharp's arrays are very much similar to C's. However, array initializations are entirely before the variable (*int[10]* a instead of *int a[10]*)
```c
#!include "code/std.bsh"

int main(long argc, char **argv) {
    int[10] a
    a[0] = 5
    a[1] = 10
    a[2] = 15
    print("Result: ")
    print(int_to_string(a[0] + a[1] * a[2]))
    print("\n")
    exit(0)
    return 0;
}
```

### 4. Structs
Similar to arrays, BirdSharp's structures are close to C's. The following code is a demonstration of creating a structure and reading and writing memory from it.
```c
#!include "std.bsh"

struct A {
    long x
    long y
}



int main(long argc, char **argv) {
    struct A string = cast(struct A, 0)
    string.x = 10
    string.y = 20
    exit(cast(int, string.x + string.y))
    return 0;
}
```

## BirdSharp's Core Ideas:
* **No excessive magic:** The code should execute exactly as the coder intends it: some optimizations are free to occur, but the user's main purpose will not be overriden.
* **Readability:** The coder, given code, should be able to understand it's exact intent without having to rely on external help.
* **Directives:** The coder, at any point in the code, can change specific features about BirdSharp. This helps the language become more diverse, although these directives are limited.

## The BirdSharp Toolchain
- Frontend: Processes BirdSharp through the tokenizer, parser, and typechecker to create refined ASTs (Abstract Syntax Trees).
- IR layer: Lowers the ASTs into a custom Intermediate Representation. The IR is supposed to be cross-platform and help structure logic before worrying about hardware.
- A backend layer: Currently only targets Assembly (specifically macho64 assembly). It translates the Intermediate Representation into Assembly code, and assembles and links them (using external processes) into an executable that has no bloat.

## Getting Started
- Build the executables: BirdSharp is rather easy to compile, as it is meant to be a developer friendly project. You can simply run *build.sh* to get the bs and irc executables, or even run *run.sh* to build it and run the code in the code/ folder.
- Compile the program: Compiling is also rather easy. If the output path isn't specified, BirdSharp will try to dump its results into a res/ folder, and will throw an error if it can't find one. This is counter-intuitive, and will be patched soon. This is an example of a BirdSharp compiler process that specifies both the input and output files
```sh
./lang/bs code/main.bsh
```
- Running the output: BirdSharp delivers the executable into a res/main file by default. However, if the output file is specified, it will dump its result there instead. Hence, the output can easily be ran as such:
```sh
./main
```

## Possible Improvements
I am open to possible contributions and ways to improve BirdSharp further, because it still has a bunch of problems. These are some examples of things that need to be added or improved.
- [ ] For Loops
- [ ] IR Optimizations: Dead-code elimination and constant-folding
- [ ] Output Patch: Help solve the default res/ folder dependency

Commit message:

Added modes to the README

README.md, after:

# BirdSharp
**BirdSharp is a high-performance, mid-level systems language that is the perfect balance between low-level control and a high-level developer experience.**


## BirdSharp Examples
### 1. Hello World (using the Standard Library)
This simple Hello World program can already show BirdSharp's versaltility. This code uses the Standard Library, a simple library that converts high-level instructions into syscalls.

```c
#!include "std.bsh"

int main(long argc, char **argv) {
    print("Hello, BirdSharp!\n")
    exit(0)
    return 0
}
```

### 2. Fibonacci Function
In particular, a Fibonnaci function can say whether a programming language is incompetent or powerful. Again, BirdSharp excels with its easy syntax

```c
int fibonacci(int n) {
    if (n < 2) {
        return n
    }
    
    int a = 0;
    int b = 1;
    int i = 2;
    int temp = 0;
    
    while (i <= n) {
        temp = a + b;
        a = b;
        b = temp;
        i = i + 1;
    }
    return b;
}
```
* Note that there are no for loops; they aren't implemented yet *

### 3. Arrays
BirdSharp's arrays are very much similar to C's. However, array initializations are entirely before the variable (*int[10]* a instead of *int a[10]*)
```c
#!include "code/std.bsh"

int main(long argc, char **argv) {
    int[10] a
    a[0] = 5
    a[1] = 10
    a[2] = 15
    print("Result: ")
    print(int_to_string(a[0] + a[1] * a[2]))
    print("\n")
    exit(0)
    return 0;
}
```

### 4. Structs
Similar to arrays, BirdSharp's structures are close to C's. The following code is a demonstration of creating a structure and reading and writing memory from it.
```c
#!include "std.bsh"

struct A {
    long x
    long y
}



int main(long argc, char **argv) {
    struct A string = cast(struct A, 0)
    string.x = 10
    string.y = 20
    exit(cast(int, string.x + string.y))
    return 0;
}
```

### 5. Modes
Modes are probably one of BirdSharp's most spectacular features. Some modes, like *#!include* are rather boring, only doing things such as including files. However, other modes can help modify the entire programming language. There are some rules on modes, however, such as it not being able to completely modify a programming language, just some features that would be helpful. There aren't necessarily modes for everything, as the only current special modes included are optimization modes. Here is an example of them:

```c
#!include "std.bsh"

int main() {
    int a = 1
    int b = 2
    int c = 3
    int d = 4
    int e = 5
    int f = 6

    int result = a + b + c + d + e + f
    
    exit(result)
    return 0
}
```

This program returns '21'. However, if you look at the IR, you will find out that it also knows that the result of this is 21 at compile-time. This is because by default BirdSharp enables constant folding and aliases. By adding the following to the start of the code, you can make the IR actually complete the operation:
```c
#!config alias off
#!config fold off
```

## BirdSharp's Core Ideas:
* **No excessive magic:** The code should execute exactly as the coder intends it: some optimizations are free to occur, but the user's main purpose will not be overriden.
* **Readability:** The coder, given code, should be able to understand it's exact intent without having to rely on external help.
* **Directives:** The coder, at any point in the code, can change specific features about BirdSharp. This helps the language become more diverse, although these directives are limited.

## The BirdSharp Toolchain
- Frontend: Processes BirdSharp through the tokenizer, parser, and typechecker to create refined ASTs (Abstract Syntax Trees).
- IR layer: Lowers the ASTs into a custom Intermediate Representation. The IR is supposed to be cross-platform and help structure logic before worrying about hardware.
- A backend layer: Currently only targets Assembly (specifically macho64 assembly). It translates the Intermediate Representation into Assembly code, and assembles and links them (using external processes) into an executable that has no bloat.

## Getting Started
- Build the executables: BirdSharp is rather easy to compile, as it is meant to be a developer friendly project. You can simply run *build.sh* to get the bs and irc executables, or even run *run.sh* to build it and run the code in the code/ folder.
- Compile the program: Compiling is also rather easy. If the output path isn't specified, BirdSharp will try to dump its results into a res/ folder, and will throw an error if it can't find one. This is counter-intuitive, and will be patched soon. This is an example of a BirdSharp compiler process that specifies both the input and output files
```sh
./lang/bs code/main.bsh
```
- Running the output: BirdSharp delivers the executable into a res/main file by default. However, if the output file is specified, it will dump its result there instead. Hence, the output can easily be ran as such:
```sh
./main
```

## Possible Improvements
I am open to possible contributions and ways to improve BirdSharp further, because it still has a bunch of problems. These are some examples of things that need to be added or improved.
- [ ] For Loops
- [ ] IR Optimizations: Dead-code elimination and constant-folding
- [ ] Output Patch: Help solve the default res/ folder dependency
